1:"$Sreact.fragment"
2:I[39756,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"default"]
3:I[37457,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"default"]
4:I[22016,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js","/_next/static/chunks/0id9s4s36x93e.js"],""]
5:I[62306,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"AnalyticsProvider"]
6:I[9518,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js","/_next/static/chunks/0id9s4s36x93e.js"],"SearchClient"]
28:I[68027,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"default",1]
:HL["/_next/static/chunks/2792fh5pmqnqc.css","style"]
7:T84c,Does the BSV case depend on Craig Wright being Satoshi? History & reputation “BSV is Craig Wright. If his identity claim failed, there is nothing left to evaluate.” No identity claim is required. Software, network rules, economics, and actual use should stand or fall on inspectable evidence of their own. No. A wallet, protocol rule, transaction proof, or application does not become correct because of a person's biography. Craig Wright's identity campaign shaped BSV's reputation, and that cost cannot be wished away. But a serious evaluation can acknowledge the history, decline the identity claim, and test the present system directly. Craig Wright and claims about Satoshi became unusually prominent in BSV's public identity. That association creates real reputational and commercial friction for builders who make no identity claim. Protocol behavior, wallet authority, source code, governance, costs, and use can each be evaluated independently. Separating the product case from a person does not erase decisions, institutions, or funding relationships shaped by that history. A working demo proves a bounded capability, not adoption, sound governance, or commercial success. Write the decision criteria before reading ecosystem advocacy: capability, dependency, governance, cost, security, and exit path. Run one wallet-mediated flow and record the exact permissions, signatures, transaction, and proof involved. Read the legal-history brief separately; do not use either hero worship or personal contempt as a substitute for diligence. Bitcoin Request for Comments index Public specifications and proposal history; a published specification is not itself proof of independent adoption. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof. BSV Blockchain GitHub organization Current repository inventory and maintenance history; activity is not the same as production use. P2PPSR GitHub organization Independent application and infrastructure repositories; evaluate project status and licenses individually.8:T680,What did the COPA judgment establish—and what does it not decide? History & reputation “COPA proved fraud and forgery. Any BSV technical claim is therefore discredited.” The judgment is an essential legal record about Craig Wright's identity claim. It is not a test report for every protocol or application claim. The High Court's approved judgment found that Craig Wright was not Satoshi Nakamoto, did not author the Bitcoin whitepaper, did not create the Bitcoin system, and did not operate under the Satoshi pseudonym. That record should be stated accurately, not relitigated by this site. It also does not answer whether a specific wallet interface, proof, node rule, or application works. The approved judgment is the authoritative starting point for the High Court's findings, not social-media summaries. The identity campaign and evidence discussed by the court created a durable trust problem for the broader ecosystem. A technical claim still requires evidence matched to that claim: source, tests, measurements, or a reproducible flow. This brief is not a complete procedural history and does not substitute for reading the judgment and later orders. Separating scope does not excuse anyone from disclosing relevant relationships or history. Read the court's published summary and approved judgment before repeating a quotation or characterization. For any separate claim, ask what evidence would prove it if no identity dispute existed. Correct ecosystem material that still presents Wright's identity claim as a technical premise. COPA v Wright — approved judgment Official High Court publication of the approved judgment and identity findings.9:T89e,Is BSV captured by a small set of institutions and patrons? Institutions “Calvin Ayre, CoinGeek, nChain, and the BSV Association fund or control the ecosystem. Independent builders are window dressing.” Concentration is a legitimate dependency question. It should be answered with an inventory of authority, funding, code ownership, operators, and replaceability—not a decentralization slogan. BSV has visible institutional concentration: the Association describes itself as protocol steward, maintains major tooling, and is the sole rule-amending authority under its published NAR FAQ. That does not prove every builder or repository is controlled by one patron. It does mean every serious project should disclose who funds, governs, licenses, hosts, and can replace each critical layer. The Association publicly describes protocol stewardship, standards governance, and tooling as part of its mission. The Network Access Rules create an explicit authority surface rather than a purely emergent social-governance model. A public repository or independent company does not, by itself, prove financial or operational independence. This site does not currently possess a complete, audited funding and beneficial-ownership map for the ecosystem. Institutional support can fund useful public goods; the risk is undisclosed dependency and lack of credible replacement paths. For each critical service, record legal owner, maintainers, funders, license, hosting operator, keys, and replacement path. Distinguish Association-controlled rules and repositories from independent organizations such as p2ppsr. Ask whether a product remains usable if one sponsor, API, wallet, or hosted overlay disappears. BSV Association — mission and projects The institution's own description of its stewardship, standards, tooling, and ecosystem role. BSV protocol documentation Association-maintained protocol reference and its stated stewardship model. BSV Blockchain GitHub organization Current repository inventory and maintenance history; activity is not the same as production use. P2PPSR GitHub organization Independent application and infrastructure repositories; evaluate project status and licenses individually.a:T76c,How should a serious person respond to the “scam” or “cult” label? Trust & reputation “BSV is a cult, a grift, or an affinity scam built to keep bagholders loyal.” A label is not a technical analysis, but it often points to a valid proof problem: were people sold allegiance and price stories instead of working utility and disclosed risk? Do not answer contempt with demands for loyalty. Translate the label into testable questions: What was promised? What works now? Who benefits? What is the user's risk? Which claims failed? Can the user leave? Evidence cannot prove that every participant is sincere, but a product can avoid manipulative patterns by making bounded claims, exposing dependencies, and offering a low-risk test path. BSV advocacy has often mixed technical claims with identity, faction, or price narratives. People can reasonably treat repeated overclaiming, missing proof, and hidden dependencies as trust warnings. Working code is relevant evidence but does not answer whether marketing, financing, or investment conduct was lawful or fair. This site cannot certify the integrity of every BSV project, promoter, founder, or transaction. The absence of a proven accusation is not proof that a product is safe; users still need ordinary diligence. Convert the accusation into a ledger of exact promises, dates, responsible parties, evidence, and outcomes. Test the smallest product flow without buying a large balance, accepting an identity claim, or joining a community. Check licenses, custody, data export, fees, funding, corrections, and the operator's ability to change terms. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. BSV Hub demo catalog Maintainer-curated catalog with repository and status claims. Recheck every live URL, repository, and usage claim.b:T780,Where are the users? Adoption “There are repositories and transaction totals, but no meaningful retained users.” The public adoption proof remains thinner than the technical inventory. That gap should be measured, not covered with anecdotes or raw transaction counts. BSV has live infrastructure, applications, wallets, and inspectable transactions. Those facts establish availability, not broad adoption. A credible adoption case needs defined active users, retention cohorts, successful workflows, economic activity, time windows, bot treatment, and independently checkable methods. Until that exists, say exactly what can be verified and keep the broader claim unresolved. Code, standards, live applications, transactions, users, retained users, and sustainable businesses are different evidence levels. Automated or low-value transactions can inflate volume without corresponding human adoption. The ecosystem lacks a single independent public dashboard with cross-project retained-user methodology. Private product analytics may exist but cannot be treated as public proof without methods and auditable aggregates. This site does not infer user counts from block transactions or repository activity. Ask each project to define an active user, successful workflow, retention window, bot policy, and economic activity. Reproduce a live flow and distinguish availability from frequency of real use. Use chain data for transactions and fees, then obtain separate product data for people and outcomes. WhatsOnChain explorer Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies. BSV Blockchain GitHub organization Current repository inventory and maintenance history; activity is not the same as production use. BSV Hub demo catalog Maintainer-curated catalog with repository and status claims. Recheck every live URL, repository, and usage claim.c:T835,Does anything economically need BSV? Product fit “Low fees are not a use case. Nothing requires a public blockchain, much less BSV.” Correct: a cheap transaction is a component, not a product. The case must be a workflow where public proofs, tiny payments, or portable signed records change user value or unit economics. Most software does not need a blockchain. BSV is worth considering only where its particular tradeoffs improve a real workflow—for example, pay-per-request APIs, independently verifiable event records, or user-authorized cross-application actions. Even then, the comparison is against ordinary databases, payment processors, and other ledgers on cost, latency, privacy, reliability, governance, and exit risk. Low fees alone do not create a user need or distribution channel. BRC-105 specifies an authenticated HTTP 402 flow, showing a concrete pay-per-request design rather than proving market demand for it. Public proofs can reduce reliance on one application's database for a narrow fact while adding ledger, privacy, and governance dependencies. A specification and implementation demonstrate feasibility, not customer willingness to pay. Public-chain storage is often the wrong choice for private data; commitments or references may be more appropriate than plaintext. Start with the user's job, then compare database, card/subscription, account credit, and ledger designs. Model full cost per successful workflow, including wallets, hosting, support, conversion, and failures. Run a pay-per-request or proof-verification flow and ask whether the architecture materially improves the product. BRC-105 — HTTP service monetization framework Specification for authenticated HTTP 402 pay-per-request flows; implementation and demand must be verified separately. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof.d:T759,Does building on BSV create unacceptable reputational risk? Builder strategy “Even a good product will be stained by BSV's identity wars, lawsuits, promoters, and failed promises.” That is a real commercial risk affecting hiring, partnerships, fundraising, and distribution. It can be reduced by clean-room product framing and evidence, not denied. A builder can lose credibility by inheriting claims they never needed. The safer path is to lead with the user problem, state that BSV is the present rail, disclose governance and license dependencies, avoid price and identity claims, and provide a runnable proof plus an exit map. That does not eliminate reputational exposure; it makes the product legible on its own merits. Partners and candidates may reject a project based on BSV association before inspecting the product. Hiding the rail creates a larger trust problem when discovered. A clean-room entry point lets someone test wallet, payment, identity, or proof behavior without joining a faction. Good messaging cannot compensate for a product without users or for undisclosed control and license risks. Some organizations will reasonably decide the residual association is unacceptable. Audit every public page for unnecessary identity, price, supremacy, or enemy framing. Give a skeptical builder a two-minute path with costs, permissions, source, and expected result. Interview partners about actual objections and record which evidence would unblock them. Bitcoin Request for Comments index Public specifications and proposal history; a published specification is not itself proof of independent adoption. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. Metanet Academy Builder Lab Ungated architecture, diagnostics, and working-flow walkthroughs for builders.e:T738,Is BSV “really Bitcoin”? Protocol identity “BSV is a 2018 fork and has no legitimate claim to the Bitcoin name.” Chain identity is partly historical and social. For a product decision, compare implemented design goals and current rules instead of demanding agreement on a purity title. BSV shares Bitcoin ancestry and argues that its design better preserves scalable peer-to-peer cash, script, SPV, and miner-set limits. BTC has the dominant market and social claim to the Bitcoin ticker and name. A person need not settle that naming dispute to compare current protocols: inspect chain history, rules, fees, proof model, governance, software, and use. BSV emerged from the Bitcoin Cash chain split in November 2018 and therefore shares ledger and code ancestry. The whitepaper does not assign modern tickers or settle later social naming disputes. Current BSV rules include governance and licensing constructs not described in the 2008 paper. A claimed design lineage does not prove present security, adoption, or economic success. Calling BSV Bitcoin does not require others to surrender the conventional BTC usage of the term. Compare the whitepaper's mechanisms with each network's current rules, software, and operating model. Separate historical ancestry, design fidelity, ticker conventions, and product fit as four questions. Avoid making a naming concession the admission price to a technical demonstration. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms. BSV protocol documentation Association-maintained protocol reference and its stated stewardship model. BSV Network Access Rules The published agreement governing the Association-node relationship; it is evidence of the stated rules, not independent proof of their application.f:T760,Is “Satoshi's Vision” a defensible description? Protocol identity “Satoshi never wrote NAR, DAR, or a BSV-only license. The slogan is historically dishonest.” The phrase is defensible only when defined narrowly as a set of design goals. It should not imply that every current governance choice appears in, or is compelled by, the whitepaper. If “Satoshi's Vision” means scalable peer-to-peer electronic cash using proof of work, SPV, script, and fees, it names a design interpretation that can be compared with the paper and software. If it means that every BSV institutional, legal, or licensing choice was authored or mandated by Satoshi, it overclaims. Builders are usually better served by naming the specific design property. The whitepaper describes peer-to-peer cash, proof of work, incentives, privacy, and SPV. It does not contain the current Network Access Rules or Open BSV License. Different communities reasonably prioritize different parts of the original design and later practice. No brief can establish the private intent of a pseudonymous author beyond the published record. Design fidelity does not prove that a current implementation is secure, useful, or well governed. Replace the slogan with the exact property under discussion. Cite the whitepaper for whitepaper mechanisms and current documents for later rules. Ask whether the claimed design property is implemented and economically meaningful today. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms. BSV Network Access Rules The published agreement governing the Association-node relationship; it is evidence of the stated rules, not independent proof of their application. Bitcoin SV node — Open BSV License Operative repository license. Version 5 conditions derived software use on BSV blockchains.10:T93a,Can nodes reject a longer proof-of-work chain and still claim Bitcoin rules? Consensus & security “Honest nodes follow the longest proof-of-work chain. Rejecting a reorganization because it is called dishonest replaces consensus with authority.” This is a serious protocol-governance dispute. Proof of work coordinates valid history; the hard questions are who defines validity, what policies can change it, and how operators learn the rules. The whitepaper describes nodes accepting valid blocks and extending the proof-of-work chain. Proof of work does not make an invalid transaction valid. The contested BSV question is broader: current rules also define legal and commercial obligations, directive mechanisms, and possible block invalidation. Calling an attacker dishonest is not enough; operators need precise, published validity and intervention rules with observable incident handling. The whitepaper's node steps require transactions and blocks to be valid before proof-of-work ordering matters. BSV's published rules add an explicit legal and institutional layer to node conduct. A post-hoc label is not a usable security control; detection thresholds, authority, communications, and recovery behavior must be known in advance. This brief does not determine whether a particular historical reorganization contained invalid transactions or breached a contract. Following more work alone does not solve eclipse attacks, double-spend exposure, or application confirmation policy. Compare whitepaper steps 1–6 with the node's current chain-selection code and configuration. Read which NAR events can lead to block invalidation and who may issue the directive. For every historical incident, publish block hashes, chainwork, invalidity claim, decision authority, timing, and operator action. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation. BSV Alert System documentation Technical description of signed informational and directive messages delivered to nodes. SV Node configuration reference Current operator-facing configuration surface, including chain and policy controls.11:T8c1,Can BSV freeze or reassign coins? Asset recovery “An authority can freeze UTXOs and transfer coins without the owner's signature. That destroys bearer ownership.” The published governance surface is real and consequential. It should be evaluated as a disputed-property recovery tradeoff—not denied or confused with ordinary wallet authority. Yes, the Network Access Rules list directives that may freeze specified UTXOs, reassign frozen coins, alter peer access, or invalidate specified blocks after defined events. A reassignment enforced by nodes is not the same mechanism as forging the owner's signature or learning a private key, but it can change which spend the network accepts. That weakens pure bearer finality and creates legal-process and governance dependencies. Part III expressly lists freezing UTXOs and reassigning frozen coins among permitted directive steps. Node enforcement can change accepted ledger state without producing the former holder's signature. Users who require a ledger incapable of legal recovery intervention may reasonably reject this model. Published restrictions do not guarantee correct courts, narrow use, transparent execution, or effective recourse. The mechanism does not, by itself, disclose private keys, decrypt data, or let an application impersonate a user. This site offers no legal conclusion about title, enforceability, or jurisdiction. Read every Part III trigger, restriction, and permitted step—not just summaries branded for or against DAR. Trace the implementation path from legal instrument to Association decision, signed message, node action, and resulting transaction or block treatment. Ask for a complete directive register, case documents, key-holder controls, notice, appeal, and post-incident review. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation. BSV Alert System documentation Technical description of signed informational and directive messages delivered to nodes. Network Access Rules — Part IV, Dispute Resolution Rules Published dispute path; inspect scope, forum, standing, and remedies rather than assuming an appeal mechanism.12:T821,What if a court or claimant gets asset recovery wrong? Asset recovery “Courts can be deceived, evidence can be forged, and defendants can be absent. A lawful order can still produce an unjust transfer.” Correct. Legal process is a risk-control system, not an oracle. The relevant mitigations are narrow scope, notice, challenge, appeal, transparency, liability, and technical reversibility. A court-recognized instrument can be erroneous or fraudulently obtained. Moving a decision from private key possession into legal and institutional process replaces one failure mode with others; it does not eliminate risk. A credible recovery system therefore needs exact jurisdictional gates, authenticated orders, adversarial process where possible, delay, public logging, appeal, error correction, and liability. Legal systems include appeals and remedies precisely because decisions can be wrong. Cryptographic possession provides a bright technical rule but can leave theft, coercion, and lost-key harms without ledger-level recovery. A recovery mechanism adds institutional attack surfaces: fraudulent process, key compromise, capture, secrecy, and inconsistent enforcement. The published NAR dispute section is not a universal appeal guarantee for every affected holder in every jurisdiction. This brief cannot determine what process a particular order received or what remedies an individual has. For a proposed directive, identify issuing court, jurisdiction, parties, service, evidentiary standard, finality, and available challenge. Verify the legal instrument independently before it enters the technical signing path. Publish correction and restitution procedures for mistaken or compromised directives before they are needed. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation. Network Access Rules — Part IV, Dispute Resolution Rules Published dispute path; inspect scope, forum, standing, and remedies rather than assuming an appeal mechanism.13:T867,Does the BSV Association function as a central authority? Governance “The Association can amend rules and issue directives. Calling BSV decentralized hides an explicit authority.” BSV does include explicit institutional governance. The defensible question is whether its scope, checks, transparency, and fit are acceptable for a use case. The Association is not merely an informal developer group. Its own materials describe protocol stewardship, and the NAR treat it as a party with rule and directive functions. Nodes still operate infrastructure and perform proof of work, but that does not erase the institutional layer. People who require authority-minimized bearer money may reject it; others may value explicit commercial rules. Both should evaluate the actual documents. Part I frames the rules as an agreement between the Association and participating nodes. The published system includes Association-signed messages and directive enforcement by nodes. Mining, development, application operation, wallet authority, and rule amendment are separate control surfaces. Explicit rules are not automatically fair, decentralized, enforceable, or competently administered. Node operation does not necessarily provide a practical veto if hashpower, connectivity, or licensing is concentrated. Build a control matrix: who can amend rules, sign directives, release node code, produce blocks, run wallets, operate overlays, and move user keys. Track rule diffs, effective dates, decision records, key rotations, and node adoption. Decide which authority surfaces are material to the specific product rather than using one global label. Network Access Rules — Part I, Master Rules Operative language on agreement, node participation, protocol compatibility, and Association responsibilities. BSV Association — mission and projects The institution's own description of its stewardship, standards, tooling, and ecosystem role. BSV protocol documentation Association-maintained protocol reference and its stated stewardship model. BSV Alert System documentation Technical description of signed informational and directive messages delivered to nodes.14:T822,Is the Open BSV License actually open—and can builders exit? Licensing & portability “Critical BSV software is source-available but usable only on BSV. That is legal and technical lock-in.” The rail-use condition is a material dependency. Inventory licenses component by component; do not use “open source” as a blanket shorthand. The Bitcoin SV node's Open BSV License allows broad dealing in the software subject to conditions, including BSV-only use for the software and derivatives. That differs materially from MIT or Apache-2.0. The current TypeScript stack contains packages with different license files, including MIT-licensed components and Open BSV-licensed ones. Builders should produce a bill of materials and test migration boundaries before relying on any package. Open BSV License Version 5 conditions the node software and derivatives to use on BSV blockchains. Source availability, OSI-approved open-source licensing, permissive reuse, and practical portability are different properties. The current TypeScript monorepo contains multiple packages and license files; no site-wide label substitutes for checking each one. This brief is not legal advice and does not decide whether a particular derivative work triggers a condition. A public standard can be reimplemented in principle while still lacking a practical independent implementation or migration path. Generate a software bill of materials with exact versions, repositories, license files, and transitive dependencies. Ask counsel about every BSV-only component material to the product's contingency plan. Run a migration exercise: export user data, replace hosted services, and identify rail-bound transaction semantics. Bitcoin SV node — Open BSV License Operative repository license. Version 5 conditions derived software use on BSV blockchains. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. BRC source repository Version history, proposals, and contribution surface for the BRC corpus.15:T685,Do delistings and weak liquidity make BSV unusable? Market access “BSV is hard to buy, sell, hedge, or custody. Delistings and thin markets make it commercially irrelevant.” Liquidity and service access are real operational dependencies for some products and nearly incidental for others. They must be tested at decision time. Exchange listings, fiat ramps, depth, spreads, withdrawals, custody, accounting, and jurisdictional access can determine whether a BSV product is viable. They are not merely price complaints. Exposure depends on the workflow: a treasury or exchange product has far greater risk than an application that acquires small fee inventory and converts frequently. Never rely on a static exchange list. Listing status alone does not establish usable depth, spreads, deposit and withdrawal reliability, or legal availability. Price volatility and liquidity are distinct risks that can compound each other. Low transaction fees do not solve treasury, tax, custody, conversion, or provider concentration risk. This site does not recommend an exchange, asset purchase, or treasury position. Explorer or market aggregators are discovery tools; provider terms and working deposit/withdrawal paths are the decision evidence. Test a small end-to-end deposit, trade, withdrawal, and settlement in the actual operating jurisdiction. Measure effective spread and depth at expected size, not the displayed last price. Set provider-loss, conversion, custody, inventory, and accounting contingencies before launch. WhatsOnChain explorer Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies.16:T6e7,Do price and “flippening” narratives invalidate the builder case? Messaging discipline “The applications are just a pretext for price vindication and ‘Craig was right’ propaganda.” They do not invalidate a working product, but they contaminate its credibility and attract the wrong success metrics. Token price cannot validate a protocol claim, and a protocol demo cannot justify a price forecast. Combining them makes it harder for users to distinguish utility from financial promotion. A builder case should stand on workflow outcomes, total cost, reliability, user control, security, and adoption—while treating any treasury exposure as a disclosed risk. A rising or falling market price does not establish protocol correctness or product usefulness. A useful application can still expose users or operators to conversion and treasury risk. Price-centered acquisition tends to measure speculation and factional attention rather than successful user workflows. Some products legitimately need liquidity and price-risk management; excluding price prophecy does not remove those dependencies. This site does not forecast, recommend, or assess the investment merits of BSV. Remove token-price, ranking, and vindication claims from product landing pages and onboarding. Measure successful workflows, retention, source inspection, support burden, and total cost instead. Place treasury and liquidity risk in an operator document with limits and controls. Bitcoin Request for Comments index Public specifications and proposal history; a published specification is not itself proof of independent adoption. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors.17:T675,Why does BSV discourse so often feel tribal or abusive? Messaging discipline “BSV supporters attack critics, call BTC evil, and reward loyalty over evidence. Why enter that culture?” Factional tone is a real credibility and distribution cost. Friendly hostility does not become helpful because it comes from an ally. Public technical communities often form identities, but builders are not obliged to inherit the worst behavior of one. The useful discipline is simple: do not amplify contempt, do not require faction membership, answer the strongest concern, link proof, name gaps, and leave low-substance fights alone. A calm page cannot fix the entire culture, but it can set a different interaction contract. Hostile ally content can make a careful product case look like factional recruitment. Answering every insult rewards low-substance conflict with distribution. A clear source and test path is more useful to a persuadable reader than grievance mirroring. No editorial policy controls independent speakers or proves that one community is uniquely toxic. Civility is not a substitute for answering a hard technical or governance objection. Before replying, identify the intended reader, exact objection, evidence link, and useful next action. Do not quote-post low-reach abuse merely to condemn it. Measure source clicks, tests started, and corrections—not applause from the existing faction. BRC source repository Version history, proposals, and contribution surface for the BRC corpus. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors.18:T755,What can a skeptical person actually try? Product proof “Stop describing architecture. Show me a working flow, screenshot, transaction, proof, and source.” That request is an opportunity. Every capability claim should lead to a bounded, reproducible path with expected output and honest failure handling. A useful first test is not ‘join the ecosystem.’ It is: open a documented app, connect a compatible wallet, inspect the requested permission, perform one low-value action, and inspect the resulting wallet history, transaction, or proof. The quickstarts, Builder Lab, public BRCs, and TypeScript stack provide starting points. They still need maintained fixtures and independent reproduction reports. Project Babbage publishes quickstarts and Metanet Academy exposes a builder lab. The current TypeScript stack exposes source and tests for wallet, transaction, overlay, and messaging components. A maintained runnable flow is stronger evidence of capability than a diagram or marketing assertion. A maintainer-authored demo is not independent verification. One successful path does not establish security, accessibility, retention, scale, or business viability. Record browser, wallet, version, network, funding source, permission request, timing, fees, and result. Save a non-sensitive transaction or proof reference and link the exact source revision. Repeat from a clean environment and publish any failed step without quietly changing the claim. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof. Metanet Academy Builder Lab Ungated architecture, diagnostics, and working-flow walkthroughs for builders. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors.19:T7f7,Is BSV too complicated to build on? Developer experience “BRC-100, BEEF, baskets, certificates, overlays, SHIP, SLAP, and GASP are too much. I should not need ecosystem lore to ship an app.” The cognitive-load objection is valid. A newcomer should start with one user outcome and a high-level API, then reveal lower layers only when they solve a real problem. The stack has many concepts because it covers keys, transactions, permissions, identity, storage, proofs, payments, and distributed application state. That breadth is not an excuse for a poor first run. A credible onboarding path should produce one wallet-mediated result with a minimal API, explain the trust boundary in plain language, and defer protocol acronyms until the builder needs them. BRC-100 defines a broad wallet/application interface, so a complete implementation necessarily exposes many capabilities. The TypeScript stack now recommends higher-level entry points such as @bsv/simple or @bsv/sdk for many applications. A high-level API still needs clear permission, failure, custody, and network behavior. One-command setup does not eliminate the operational complexity of production wallets, overlays, keys, or payments. Simplified language must not misstate who signs, stores data, or can change network outcomes. Time a clean-room builder from empty directory to one visible wallet-mediated outcome. Record every prerequisite, account, faucet, permission, failure, and unexplained acronym. Keep a progressive glossary linked at first use and test it with non-BSV developers. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof.1a:T821,Is BRC-100 real interoperability or one vendor's interface? Wallets & standards “A published document and one implementation are not interoperability. Show independent wallets, shared vectors, and compatibility results.” That is the right proof standard. BRC-100 is a substantial public interface; interoperability depends on conforming independent implementations and observable compatibility. BRC-100 specifies wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, baskets, and discovery. The current TypeScript monorepo includes wallet tooling and a growing language-neutral conformance corpus. That is more than a private API, but it does not settle vendor neutrality. Credible interoperability requires independent implementations, published coverage, negative tests, version handling, and a compatibility matrix. BRC-100 is publicly readable and defined as a unified vendor-neutral wallet-to-application interface. The TypeScript stack publishes language-neutral conformance vectors and runners with an explicit coverage surface. A single successful application-wallet pairing does not prove cross-vendor compatibility. The presence of a conformance directory does not mean every BRC-100 method, edge case, and language is covered. Wallet API interoperability does not remove rail, governance, liquidity, or license dependencies. Read the current conformance coverage and parity matrices before making an interoperability claim. Run the same positive and negative request vectors against at least two independently maintained wallets. Publish version, unsupported behavior, permission differences, failures, and data-export results. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery. BRC source repository Version history, proposals, and contribution surface for the BRC corpus. BSV TypeScript conformance corpus Language-neutral vectors and runners. Inspect current coverage and parity before calling the whole interface interoperable.1b:T844,Can users actually leave a wallet, app, or overlay? Portability “User-owned data is marketing if the user cannot export it, move wallets, replace a service, or keep using it when a provider disappears.” Correct. Portability is an operational property demonstrated by export, import, discovery, replacement, and recovery—not inferred from public keys or blockchain storage. A user may control signing keys while still depending on one wallet database, hosted overlay, certificate issuer, lookup service, or application schema. BRC-100 and the overlay stack define useful interfaces, but each product must prove what is exportable, intelligible, restorable, and replaceable. The honest output is a layer-by-layer exit matrix and a tested migration. BRC-100 defines an application/wallet interface, not a universal guarantee that every wallet store is mutually importable. Overlay services can distribute application-specific state and discovery while leaving schema, hosting, and index dependencies. On-chain records can remain publicly retrievable while application meaning or decryption depends on other data and keys. This site has not independently validated a full migration across every wallet and service represented in the ecosystem. Portability within BSV does not equal portability to another settlement rail. Export keys, transaction history, baskets, labels, certificates, application records, and service configuration in documented formats. Restore into a clean environment or alternate implementation and reproduce a prior user action. Disable the original hosted dependency and observe which capabilities survive. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. BSV TypeScript conformance corpus Language-neutral vectors and runners. Inspect current coverage and parity before calling the whole interface interoperable.1c:T98b,Is BSV scaling real, or a datacenter marketing claim? Scale & economics “Teranode throughput is vendor hype. Large blocks centralize operators, and cheap fees reflect missing demand.” BSV has a coherent large-block architecture and public Teranode source. Capacity, independent reproduction, production behavior, demand, and operator diversity remain separate claims. BSV deliberately moves heavy validation and storage toward specialized block producers while expecting most applications to use headers, Merkle proofs, and services. Teranode source and a public testnet runner now make implementation more inspectable. A vendor or testnet benchmark still does not establish sustained mainnet throughput, economically useful demand, competitive block production, or reproducibility on disclosed hardware. Larger blocks increase bandwidth, propagation, validation, and archival requirements somewhere in the system. SPV reduces the verification burden for many clients; it does not make block production free or guarantee competitive mining. A large historical block, a peak benchmark, a sustained production rate, low fees, and useful demand are different measurements. This site does not treat Association-published throughput as independent reproduction. Public source does not by itself establish production readiness, fault tolerance, or total operating cost. Record code revision, topology, hardware, workload, transaction mix, duration, latency, error rate, cost, and failure recovery for every benchmark. Compare current mainnet blocks, fee distribution, transaction mix, stale blocks, and producer distribution. Reproduce the test outside the maintainer's environment and publish raw results, including failures. Teranode source repository Current public implementation. Source availability does not validate throughput or production-readiness claims by itself. Teranode Teratestnet runner Public instructions and tooling for running the test network; inspect hardware and workload before comparing results. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms. BRC-67 — Simplified Payment Verification Application-side criteria for verifying transaction inclusion and ancestry with proofs. WhatsOnChain explorer Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies.1d:T9aa,What do hashpower and reorganization history mean for BSV security? Security “BSV has less hashpower than BTC and a reorg history. Governance responses cannot replace Nakamoto consensus.” Hash economics, transaction validity, confirmation policy, topology, monitoring, and governance response are separate security layers. None should be hand-waved. A proof-of-work chain with less economically committed hashpower can be cheaper to reorganize than a higher-hash chain using the same algorithm, all else equal. Applications should model current conditions, transaction value, double-spend exposure, and service dependencies. Proofs establish inclusion and ancestry; they do not create absolute settlement. BSV's NAR and alert mechanisms add response options and institutional risk rather than substituting for hashpower. Proof-of-work security is economic and relative, not a permanent property conferred by a chain name. A valid-chain dispute, invalid transaction, double spend, accidental fork, and policy intervention are different events. Confirmation policy should depend on value, reversibility, observed network conditions, and threat model. No static confirmation number is safe for every value and failure mode. Calling adversarial behavior dishonest does not remove the need to detect, price, and respond to it. This site does not currently publish an independently audited incident database. Monitor chainwork, producer distribution, competing tips, stale blocks, double-spend signals, and the services relied upon. Document action thresholds for low, medium, and high-value workflows before accepting irreversible consequences. Reconstruct incidents from block data, node logs, alerts, and signed decisions rather than retrospective labels. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms. BRC-67 — Simplified Payment Verification Application-side criteria for verifying transaction inclusion and ancestry with proofs. BSV Alert System documentation Technical description of signed informational and directive messages delivered to nodes. BSV Network Access Rules The published agreement governing the Association-node relationship; it is evidence of the stated rules, not independent proof of their application. WhatsOnChain explorer Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies.1e:T76f,Do DAR or compliance controls change BSV's legal classification? Legal & regulatory “If an association can freeze or reassign coins, BSV must be a security—or a centrally controlled compliance database.” Mechanisms can affect a legal analysis, but a slogan cannot supply one. Classification is jurisdiction-, fact-, transaction-, and time-specific and requires counsel. The published freeze, reassignment, and governance mechanisms are relevant facts for lawyers, exchanges, custodians, and enterprises. They do not produce one universal classification by themselves. Public material should describe the mechanism, authority, dependencies, and observed use accurately, then defer legal conclusions to qualified counsel applying current law to the actual activity. The NAR's stated authority and enforcement mechanisms are facts that may be material to legal analysis. Different activities involving the same token can raise different regulatory questions. Marketing phrases such as decentralized, compliant, commodity, or security are not legal opinions. This site provides no classification conclusion in any jurisdiction. Association statements about compliance describe intent and design; they are not binding regulator or court determinations. Give counsel the exact NAR, license, software behavior, parties, custody model, transaction flow, marketing, and jurisdiction. Separate token trading, payment use, software licensing, custody, fundraising, and application data in the analysis. Review public claims whenever rules, law, or product structure changes. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation. Network Access Rules — Part I, Master Rules Operative language on agreement, node participation, protocol compatibility, and Association responsibilities.1f:T813,Why have so many funded BSV projects disappeared? Ecosystem accountability “Accelerators and ecosystem patrons funded projects that vanished. The ecosystem burns money and rebrands the failures.” Failed projects are normal; missing accountability is not. Judge a current ecosystem by maintained products, user outcomes, and transparent status—not by cumulative launch announcements. No one should defend every funded project. A grant, accelerator place, press release, repository, demo, maintained product, retained user base, and sustainable business are different statuses. The current BSV Hub and GitHub organizations provide discovery surfaces, but their labels need independent verification. A durable inventory should name owner, funding disclosure, last verified date, live proof, maintainer, license, and shutdown state. A demo or repository does not establish a maintained service, users, or sustainable business. Official catalogs are useful for discovery but have an incentive to present projects favorably. Failure becomes harder to learn from when status, funding, ownership, and shutdown reasons are not recorded. This site does not yet have an audited historical ledger of every BSV-funded project. A closed project is not automatically fraud or waste; experiments can fail honestly and still produce reusable work. Check the live URL, repository activity, releases, issue response, named maintainers, and a complete user flow. Record funding source when documented, current legal owner, status date, and evidence for the status label. Preserve shutdown notices, source, export instructions, and lessons instead of silently deleting listings. BSV Hub demo catalog Maintainer-curated catalog with repository and status claims. Recheck every live URL, repository, and usage claim. BSV Blockchain GitHub organization Current repository inventory and maintenance history; activity is not the same as production use. P2PPSR GitHub organization Independent application and infrastructure repositories; evaluate project status and licenses individually.20:T7cd,Is BSV just a cheap database for spam? Design tradeoffs “Bitcoin is money, not a database. Non-payment data bloats the chain and subsidizes grifters.” This is a genuine design-priority disagreement. Cheap public blockspace can support proofs and signed records while imposing permanent-resource and privacy costs. BSV permits a broader use of transaction outputs and script than a money-only design. For workflows needing public timestamping, payment-linked events, or verifiable commitments, cheap blockspace can be useful. It is usually a mistake to publish private or bulky application data merely because fees are low. Good designs put only the minimum verification material on-chain and price the long-term externalities. Every byte retained or indexed has resource and operational costs even when the sender's fee is small. A hash, commitment, transaction reference, encrypted object, and plaintext payload have very different privacy and verification properties. BTC and BSV communities make different policy and product tradeoffs around blockspace use. A public timestamp does not prove that the underlying statement is true; it proves that particular data existed no later than a point in the chain. Encryption does not make permanent publication harmless; keys can leak and metadata can remain visible. Define the exact fact another party must verify and publish only the minimum commitment needed. Compare on-chain, content-addressed off-chain, ordinary database, and hybrid designs. Threat-model personal data, deletion obligations, metadata, indexers, and future key compromise. BSV protocol documentation Association-maintained protocol reference and its stated stewardship model. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms.21:Ta74,Can miners, the chain, or an app sign as me or read my private data? Wallet trust model “If BSV can recover coins and apps use identity keys, miners or the Association can impersonate me, decrypt my data, or approve wallet permissions.” These are different authority layers. Network recovery can affect accepted coin ownership without automatically granting a user's signing keys, decryption keys, certificates, or app permissions. Under the published wallet model, applications request operations from a wallet; the wallet holds or controls user key material and permissions. Miners validate transactions and order accepted history. The NAR can affect UTXO treatment at the network layer. None of those facts, by itself, gives a miner or Association the private keys needed to produce a user's application signature or decrypt properly protected data. Implementation bugs, wallet compromise, and poor permission design remain real risks. BRC-100 defines wallet-mediated operations rather than handing arbitrary private keys to an application. BRC-103 uses identity keys and signed messages for peer authentication and selective certificate exchange. Network-level UTXO reassignment can change accepted ownership without creating the former holder's signature. A vulnerable or malicious wallet can mishandle keys, permissions, data, or signatures. Encrypted content can still leak metadata, and recovery of coins can have identity or financial consequences without key disclosure. This page describes intended protocol boundaries, not a security audit of every wallet. Draw the exact keys, data, permissions, messages, and network decisions involved in the user action. Inspect the wallet prompt and source path for every requested signature, encryption, certificate, and transaction operation. Test denial, revocation, export, compromised-app, and unavailable-wallet scenarios. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery. BRC-56 — Abstract wallet-to-application messaging layer Earlier interface rationale and permission-oriented wallet/application boundary. BRC-103 — Mutual authentication and certificate exchange Peer-to-peer authentication, message signatures, and selective certificate exchange protocol. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors.22:Ta07,Does Project Babbage depend too heavily on the BSV rail? Architecture & contingency “If BSV fails technically, economically, or politically, the wallet and app layer fails with it.” BSV is the current rail, so failure is a material dependency. Portability claims must distinguish reusable interfaces and user data from BSV-specific transactions, proofs, licenses, and services. Project Babbage builds a wallet-mediated application model around BRCs, keys, payments, certificates, and overlays currently anchored to BSV. Some concepts and application data can be portable; transaction history, satoshi-denominated payments, proof semantics, BSV-only code, and deployed services may not be. The responsible architecture is to label every boundary, minimize irreplaceable hosted dependencies, export user-controlled material, and maintain contingency triggers. Current BRC-100 wallet flows and BSV transaction proofs are designed around the BSV ecosystem and settlement rail. Public specifications and reusable application concepts can lower reimplementation cost without making migration automatic. A rail contingency must cover funding, transaction semantics, proofs, identity references, overlays, hosted services, licenses, and user communication. This site does not claim an existing drop-in replacement rail for the complete Babbage stack. Exportable keys or records do not guarantee equivalent functionality, counterparties, or legal meaning elsewhere. Classify every component as rail-neutral, reimplementable, BSV-specific, hosted, or institution-controlled. Export user-controlled keys, certificates, records, baskets, and application data into documented formats. Run table-top failures for loss of a wallet provider, overlay host, broadcaster, exchange, node rule, and the rail itself. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors. BSV TypeScript conformance corpus Language-neutral vectors and runners. Inspect current coverage and parity before calling the whole interface interoperable. Bitcoin SV node — Open BSV License Operative repository license. Version 5 conditions derived software use on BSV blockchains.0:{"P":null,"c":["","search",""],"q":"","i":false,"f":[[["",{"children":["search",{"children":["__PAGE__",{}]}]},"$undefined","$undefined",16],[["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/chunks/2792fh5pmqnqc.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}],["$","script","script-0",{"src":"/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","async":true,"nonce":"$undefined"}],["$","script","script-1",{"src":"/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js","async":true,"nonce":"$undefined"}]],["$","html",null,{"lang":"en","children":[["$","head",null,{"children":[["$","link",null,{"rel":"alternate","type":"application/rss+xml","title":"BSV.place evidence desk updates","href":"/feed.xml"}],["$","link",null,{"rel":"alternate","type":"application/feed+json","title":"BSV.place JSON feed","href":"/feed.json"}]]}],["$","body",null,{"children":[["$","a",null,{"className":"skip-link","href":"#main-content","children":"Skip to main content"}],["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":[["$","main",null,{"id":"main-content","className":"not-found","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"wordmark-mark","children":"B"}],["$","div",null,{"className":"eyebrow","children":"404 · Evidence not found"}],["$","h1",null,{"children":"This claim does not have a page."}],["$","p",null,{"children":"Return to the objection desk and choose a sourced brief."}],["$","$L4",null,{"className":"button button-primary","href":"/","children":"Back to BSV.place"}]]}],[]],"forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}],["$","$L5",null,{}],["$","script",null,{"type":"application/ld+json","dangerouslySetInnerHTML":{"__html":"{\"@context\":\"https://schema.org\",\"@type\":\"WebSite\",\"name\":\"BSV.place\",\"url\":\"https://bsv.place/\",\"description\":\"Evidence-first responses to the strongest objections to BSV.\",\"potentialAction\":{\"@type\":\"SearchAction\",\"target\":\"https://bsv.place/search/#q={search_term_string}\",\"query-input\":\"required name=search_term_string\"}}"}}]]}]]}]]}],{"children":[["$","$1","c",{"children":[null,["$","$L2",null,{"parallelRouterKey":"children","error":"$undefined","errorStyles":"$undefined","errorScripts":"$undefined","template":["$","$L3",null,{}],"templateStyles":"$undefined","templateScripts":"$undefined","notFound":"$undefined","forbidden":"$undefined","unauthorized":"$undefined"}]]}],{"children":[["$","$1","c",{"children":[[["$","header",null,{"className":"site-header compact-header","children":[["$","$L4",null,{"className":"wordmark","href":"/","aria-label":"BSV.place home","children":[["$","span",null,{"className":"wordmark-mark","children":"B"}],["$","span",null,{"children":"BSV.place"}]]}],["$","nav",null,{"aria-label":"Primary navigation","children":[["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/search/","aria-current":"page","children":"Search"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/proof/","children":"Proof"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/resources/","children":"Resources"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/methodology/","children":"Method"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/contribute/","aria-current":"$undefined","children":"Contribute"}]]}]]}],["$","main",null,{"id":"main-content","className":"eng-shell","children":[["$","div",null,{"className":"section-label","children":"Local evidence search"}],["$","h1",null,{"children":"Find the claim. Inspect the answer."}],["$","p",null,{"className":"eng-lede","children":"Search across the hard questions, candid limits, inspection steps, and resource desk. No account and no search profile."}],["$","$L6",null,{"documents":[{"id":"brief:craig-wright-and-satoshi","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Does the BSV case depend on Craig Wright being Satoshi?","summary":"No identity claim is required. Software, network rules, economics, and actual use should stand or fall on inspectable evidence of their own.","href":"/answers/craig-wright-and-satoshi/","category":"History & reputation","searchableText":"$7"},{"id":"brief:copa-judgment-and-legal-record","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"What did the COPA judgment establish—and what does it not decide?","summary":"The judgment is an essential legal record about Craig Wright's identity claim. It is not a test report for every protocol or application claim.","href":"/answers/copa-judgment-and-legal-record/","category":"History & reputation","searchableText":"$8"},{"id":"brief:institutional-capture-and-independence","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BSV captured by a small set of institutions and patrons?","summary":"Concentration is a legitimate dependency question. It should be answered with an inventory of authority, funding, code ownership, operators, and replaceability—not a decentralization slogan.","href":"/answers/institutional-capture-and-independence/","category":"Institutions","searchableText":"$9"},{"id":"brief:scam-cult-and-grift-labels","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"How should a serious person respond to the “scam” or “cult” label?","summary":"A label is not a technical analysis, but it often points to a valid proof problem: were people sold allegiance and price stories instead of working utility and disclosed risk?","href":"/answers/scam-cult-and-grift-labels/","category":"Trust & reputation","searchableText":"$a"},{"id":"brief:users-adoption-and-use-cases","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Where are the users?","summary":"The public adoption proof remains thinner than the technical inventory. That gap should be measured, not covered with anecdotes or raw transaction counts.","href":"/answers/users-adoption-and-use-cases/","category":"Adoption","searchableText":"$b"},{"id":"brief:economically-necessary-use-cases","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Does anything economically need BSV?","summary":"Correct: a cheap transaction is a component, not a product. The case must be a workflow where public proofs, tiny payments, or portable signed records change user value or unit economics.","href":"/answers/economically-necessary-use-cases/","category":"Product fit","searchableText":"$c"},{"id":"brief:builder-reputational-risk","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Does building on BSV create unacceptable reputational risk?","summary":"That is a real commercial risk affecting hiring, partnerships, fundraising, and distribution. It can be reduced by clean-room product framing and evidence, not denied.","href":"/answers/builder-reputational-risk/","category":"Builder strategy","searchableText":"$d"},{"id":"brief:is-bsv-really-bitcoin","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BSV “really Bitcoin”?","summary":"Chain identity is partly historical and social. For a product decision, compare implemented design goals and current rules instead of demanding agreement on a purity title.","href":"/answers/is-bsv-really-bitcoin/","category":"Protocol identity","searchableText":"$e"},{"id":"brief:satoshis-vision-claim","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is “Satoshi's Vision” a defensible description?","summary":"The phrase is defensible only when defined narrowly as a set of design goals. It should not imply that every current governance choice appears in, or is compelled by, the whitepaper.","href":"/answers/satoshis-vision-claim/","category":"Protocol identity","searchableText":"$f"},{"id":"brief:proof-of-work-and-honest-nodes","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Can nodes reject a longer proof-of-work chain and still claim Bitcoin rules?","summary":"This is a serious protocol-governance dispute. Proof of work coordinates valid history; the hard questions are who defines validity, what policies can change it, and how operators learn the rules.","href":"/answers/proof-of-work-and-honest-nodes/","category":"Consensus & security","searchableText":"$10"},{"id":"brief:governance-dar-and-network-rules","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Can BSV freeze or reassign coins?","summary":"The published governance surface is real and consequential. It should be evaluated as a disputed-property recovery tradeoff—not denied or confused with ordinary wallet authority.","href":"/answers/governance-dar-and-network-rules/","category":"Asset recovery","searchableText":"$11"},{"id":"brief:courts-errors-and-recovery-safeguards","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"What if a court or claimant gets asset recovery wrong?","summary":"Correct. Legal process is a risk-control system, not an oracle. The relevant mitigations are narrow scope, notice, challenge, appeal, transparency, liability, and technical reversibility.","href":"/answers/courts-errors-and-recovery-safeguards/","category":"Asset recovery","searchableText":"$12"},{"id":"brief:bsv-association-governance","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Does the BSV Association function as a central authority?","summary":"BSV does include explicit institutional governance. The defensible question is whether its scope, checks, transparency, and fit are acceptable for a use case.","href":"/answers/bsv-association-governance/","category":"Governance","searchableText":"$13"},{"id":"brief:open-bsv-license-and-exit-risk","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is the Open BSV License actually open—and can builders exit?","summary":"The rail-use condition is a material dependency. Inventory licenses component by component; do not use “open source” as a blanket shorthand.","href":"/answers/open-bsv-license-and-exit-risk/","category":"Licensing & portability","searchableText":"$14"},{"id":"brief:liquidity-delisting-and-operational-risk","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Do delistings and weak liquidity make BSV unusable?","summary":"Liquidity and service access are real operational dependencies for some products and nearly incidental for others. They must be tested at decision time.","href":"/answers/liquidity-delisting-and-operational-risk/","category":"Market access","searchableText":"$15"},{"id":"brief:price-and-flippening-contamination","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Do price and “flippening” narratives invalidate the builder case?","summary":"They do not invalidate a working product, but they contaminate its credibility and attract the wrong success metrics.","href":"/answers/price-and-flippening-contamination/","category":"Messaging discipline","searchableText":"$16"},{"id":"brief:tribalism-and-ally-tone","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Why does BSV discourse so often feel tribal or abusive?","summary":"Factional tone is a real credibility and distribution cost. Friendly hostility does not become helpful because it comes from an ally.","href":"/answers/tribalism-and-ally-tone/","category":"Messaging discipline","searchableText":"$17"},{"id":"brief:show-working-product-proof","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"What can a skeptical person actually try?","summary":"That request is an opportunity. Every capability claim should lead to a bounded, reproducible path with expected output and honest failure handling.","href":"/answers/show-working-product-proof/","category":"Product proof","searchableText":"$18"},{"id":"brief:onboarding-and-acronym-overload","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BSV too complicated to build on?","summary":"The cognitive-load objection is valid. A newcomer should start with one user outcome and a high-level API, then reveal lower layers only when they solve a real problem.","href":"/answers/onboarding-and-acronym-overload/","category":"Developer experience","searchableText":"$19"},{"id":"brief:brc100-interoperability-and-portability","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BRC-100 real interoperability or one vendor's interface?","summary":"That is the right proof standard. BRC-100 is a substantial public interface; interoperability depends on conforming independent implementations and observable compatibility.","href":"/answers/brc100-interoperability-and-portability/","category":"Wallets & standards","searchableText":"$1a"},{"id":"brief:user-data-and-service-portability","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Can users actually leave a wallet, app, or overlay?","summary":"Correct. Portability is an operational property demonstrated by export, import, discovery, replacement, and recovery—not inferred from public keys or blockchain storage.","href":"/answers/user-data-and-service-portability/","category":"Portability","searchableText":"$1b"},{"id":"brief:scale-fees-and-centralization","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BSV scaling real, or a datacenter marketing claim?","summary":"BSV has a coherent large-block architecture and public Teranode source. Capacity, independent reproduction, production behavior, demand, and operator diversity remain separate claims.","href":"/answers/scale-fees-and-centralization/","category":"Scale & economics","searchableText":"$1c"},{"id":"brief:security-hashpower-and-reorgs","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"What do hashpower and reorganization history mean for BSV security?","summary":"Hash economics, transaction validity, confirmation policy, topology, monitoring, and governance response are separate security layers. None should be hand-waved.","href":"/answers/security-hashpower-and-reorgs/","category":"Security","searchableText":"$1d"},{"id":"brief:dar-compliance-and-regulatory-classification","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Do DAR or compliance controls change BSV's legal classification?","summary":"Mechanisms can affect a legal analysis, but a slogan cannot supply one. Classification is jurisdiction-, fact-, transaction-, and time-specific and requires counsel.","href":"/answers/dar-compliance-and-regulatory-classification/","category":"Legal & regulatory","searchableText":"$1e"},{"id":"brief:ecosystem-funding-and-project-failures","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Why have so many funded BSV projects disappeared?","summary":"Failed projects are normal; missing accountability is not. Judge a current ecosystem by maintained products, user outcomes, and transparent status—not by cumulative launch announcements.","href":"/answers/ecosystem-funding-and-project-failures/","category":"Ecosystem accountability","searchableText":"$1f"},{"id":"brief:cheap-database-data-and-spam","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Is BSV just a cheap database for spam?","summary":"This is a genuine design-priority disagreement. Cheap public blockspace can support proofs and signed records while imposing permanent-resource and privacy costs.","href":"/answers/cheap-database-data-and-spam/","category":"Design tradeoffs","searchableText":"$20"},{"id":"brief:wallet-authority-identity-and-data","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Can miners, the chain, or an app sign as me or read my private data?","summary":"These are different authority layers. Network recovery can affect accepted coin ownership without automatically granting a user's signing keys, decryption keys, certificates, or app permissions.","href":"/answers/wallet-authority-identity-and-data/","category":"Wallet trust model","searchableText":"$21"},{"id":"brief:babbage-and-bsv-rail-dependency","kind":"Evidence brief","title":"Does Project Babbage depend too heavily on the BSV rail?","summary":"BSV is the current rail, so failure is a material dependency. Portability claims must distinguish reusable interfaces and user data from BSV-specific transactions, proofs, licenses, and services.","href":"/answers/babbage-and-bsv-rail-dependency/","category":"Architecture & contingency","searchableText":"$22"},{"id":"proof:proof-copa-record","kind":"Proof record","title":"COPA v Wright official record","summary":"The court's published findings and stated reasons are directly inspectable.","href":"/proof/#proof-copa-record","category":"legal record","searchableText":"COPA v Wright official record legal-record reference The court's published findings and stated reasons are directly inspectable. Whether an unrelated protocol or application claim works. Read the official summary and approved judgment. Match every quoted legal claim to the record and scope."},{"id":"proof:proof-nar-record","kind":"Proof record","title":"Network Access Rules and enforcement surface","summary":"The Association publishes an explicit node-governance agreement.","href":"/proof/#proof-nar-record","category":"governance record","searchableText":"Network Access Rules and enforcement surface governance-record active The Association publishes an explicit node-governance agreement. Part III describes possible freeze, reassignment, peer, and block directives. That every directive is fair, enforceable, public, or correctly executed. That courts or key holders cannot err. Read all five parts and current effective dates. Compare current node and alert behavior with the text. Request a complete directive history."},{"id":"proof:proof-brc-corpus","kind":"Proof record","title":"Public BRC specification corpus","summary":"Wallet, identity, payment, proof, and overlay interfaces are publicly versioned and inspectable.","href":"/proof/#proof-brc-corpus","category":"standard","searchableText":"Public BRC specification corpus standard active Wallet, identity, payment, proof, and overlay interfaces are publicly versioned and inspectable. Independent implementation, conformance, production security, or adoption. Read the exact BRC and its version history. Find implementation and test coverage. Check independent compatibility."},{"id":"proof:proof-ts-stack","kind":"Proof record","title":"Current BSV TypeScript implementation stack","summary":"SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helper, and infrastructure source is inspectable in a current monorepo.","href":"/proof/#proof-ts-stack","category":"code","searchableText":"Current BSV TypeScript implementation stack code active SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helper, and infrastructure source is inspectable in a current monorepo. The repository publishes build, test, and conformance entry points. Production security of every deployment. Users, retention, commercial demand, or cross-language parity. Pin a commit. Install, build, test, and run conformance. Inspect each package license and release status."},{"id":"proof:proof-conformance","kind":"Proof record","title":"Language-neutral conformance vectors","summary":"A shared vector format, coverage record, runners, and parity material exist.","href":"/proof/#proof-conformance","category":"code","searchableText":"Language-neutral conformance vectors code inspectable A shared vector format, coverage record, runners, and parity material exist. Complete coverage of BRC-100. Multiple independent wallets pass every vector. Read COVERAGE.md and PARITY_MATRIX.json. Run the structural and TypeScript dispatchers. Publish missing and failing vectors."},{"id":"proof:proof-teranode-source","kind":"Proof record","title":"Teranode source and public testnet runner","summary":"Teranode is publicly inspectable software rather than only a future architecture claim.","href":"/proof/#proof-teranode-source","category":"code","searchableText":"Teranode source and public testnet runner code active Teranode is publicly inspectable software rather than only a future architecture claim. A public Teratestnet runner exists. Any headline throughput under independent conditions. Sustained mainnet demand, production safety, cost, or operator diversity. Pin source and runner revisions. Publish hardware, topology, workload, duration, latency, errors, and cost. Reproduce outside the maintainer environment."},{"id":"proof:proof-wallet-quickstart","kind":"Proof record","title":"Wallet-mediated application quickstart","summary":"A documented path exists for a builder to exercise wallet-mediated operations.","href":"/proof/#proof-wallet-quickstart","category":"live flow","searchableText":"Wallet-mediated application quickstart live-flow inspectable A documented path exists for a builder to exercise wallet-mediated operations. Independent reproduction, production readiness, retained users, or wallet neutrality. Start from a clean environment. Record prerequisites, permissions, version, cost, result, and failure. Inspect the resulting source and transaction or proof."},{"id":"proof:proof-builder-lab","kind":"Proof record","title":"Metanet Academy Builder Lab","summary":"An ungated architecture and diagnostic learning path is live.","href":"/proof/#proof-builder-lab","category":"live flow","searchableText":"Metanet Academy Builder Lab live-flow inspectable An ungated architecture and diagnostic learning path is live. That unaffiliated builders complete it successfully or adopt the stack. Complete the path without maintainer help. Record unclear terms, broken steps, and time to outcome."},{"id":"proof:proof-chain-inspection","kind":"Proof record","title":"Live block and transaction inspection","summary":"Current blocks and transactions can be inspected through a third-party explorer.","href":"/proof/#proof-chain-inspection","category":"network data","searchableText":"Live block and transaction inspection network-data active Current blocks and transactions can be inspected through a third-party explorer. Human user counts, economic necessity, producer independence, or explorer correctness. Cross-check material data with another source or node. Separate transaction counts from users and outcomes."},{"id":"proof:proof-demo-catalog","kind":"Proof record","title":"Official BSV demo catalog","summary":"The Association publishes a discovery catalog linking demos and repositories.","href":"/proof/#proof-demo-catalog","category":"live flow","searchableText":"Official BSV demo catalog live-flow unverified-adoption The Association publishes a discovery catalog linking demos and repositories. Independent status, complete working flows, users, retention, or sustainable businesses. Open every live URL. Inspect the repository and last meaningful activity. Complete the user flow. Record a dated independent status."},{"id":"glossary:brc","kind":"Glossary","title":"BRC","summary":"A Bitcoin Request for Comments: a public specification or proposal in the BSV BRC corpus.","href":"/glossary/#brc","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"BRC A Bitcoin Request for Comments: a public specification or proposal in the BSV BRC corpus. A BRC documents an interface or idea; it does not by itself prove implementation, interoperability, security, or adoption."},{"id":"glossary:brc-100","kind":"Glossary","title":"BRC-100","summary":"The unified wallet-to-application interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, baskets, and discovery.","href":"/glossary/#brc-100","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"BRC-100 The unified wallet-to-application interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, baskets, and discovery. Vendor neutrality requires independent implementations and conformance evidence."},{"id":"glossary:beef","kind":"Glossary","title":"BEEF","summary":"A transaction-data format used to carry a transaction together with information needed to evaluate its ancestry and proofs.","href":"/glossary/#beef","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"BEEF A transaction-data format used to carry a transaction together with information needed to evaluate its ancestry and proofs. Possessing a BEEF structure does not create absolute settlement or prove a real-world claim."},{"id":"glossary:spv","kind":"Glossary","title":"SPV","summary":"Simplified Payment Verification: checking relevant transactions with block headers and Merkle evidence without maintaining the complete block database.","href":"/glossary/#spv","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"SPV Simplified Payment Verification: checking relevant transactions with block headers and Merkle evidence without maintaining the complete block database. SPV reduces client burden; it does not remove chain-selection, data-availability, or reorganization risk."},{"id":"glossary:merkle-proof","kind":"Glossary","title":"Merkle proof","summary":"A compact path showing that a transaction or item is committed by a particular Merkle root, such as one in a block header.","href":"/glossary/#merkle-proof","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Merkle proof A compact path showing that a transaction or item is committed by a particular Merkle root, such as one in a block header. It proves inclusion relative to a root, not the truth of an off-chain statement."},{"id":"glossary:utxo","kind":"Glossary","title":"UTXO","summary":"An unspent transaction output: a spendable output governed by a locking script and the network's accepted rules.","href":"/glossary/#utxo","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"UTXO An unspent transaction output: a spendable output governed by a locking script and the network's accepted rules. Control of a signing key and network acceptance of a spend are related but distinct under BSV's recovery rules."},{"id":"glossary:nar","kind":"Glossary","title":"NAR","summary":"The Network Access Rules published by the BSV Association for the relationship among the Association and participating nodes.","href":"/glossary/#nar","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"NAR The Network Access Rules published by the BSV Association for the relationship among the Association and participating nodes. Read the operative parts and current version; summaries are not the agreement."},{"id":"glossary:dar","kind":"Glossary","title":"DAR","summary":"Digital Asset Recovery: the ecosystem term for processes intended to support freezing and reassignment of disputed or recoverable BSV through node-enforced rules.","href":"/glossary/#dar","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"DAR Digital Asset Recovery: the ecosystem term for processes intended to support freezing and reassignment of disputed or recoverable BSV through node-enforced rules. It is not the same technical mechanism as obtaining the former holder's private key or signature."},{"id":"glossary:directive","kind":"Glossary","title":"Directive","summary":"A signed instruction contemplated by the Network Access Rules and delivered to nodes through the alert mechanism after specified events.","href":"/glossary/#directive","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Directive A signed instruction contemplated by the Network Access Rules and delivered to nodes through the alert mechanism after specified events. Authority, restrictions, legal basis, technical effect, notice, and challenge must be checked for the actual directive."},{"id":"glossary:proof-of-work","kind":"Glossary","title":"Proof of work","summary":"The expenditure evidenced by finding a block hash below a target, used to make history costly to rewrite and to coordinate ordering among valid blocks.","href":"/glossary/#proof-of-work","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Proof of work The expenditure evidenced by finding a block hash below a target, used to make history costly to rewrite and to coordinate ordering among valid blocks. More work is not a substitute for transaction and block validity, and security remains economic and probabilistic."},{"id":"glossary:chainwork","kind":"Glossary","title":"Chainwork","summary":"The accumulated proof-of-work represented by a chain of block headers.","href":"/glossary/#chainwork","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Chainwork The accumulated proof-of-work represented by a chain of block headers. Applications still need a chain-selection and incident policy; the meaning of valid and accepted must be explicit."},{"id":"glossary:reorganization","kind":"Glossary","title":"Reorganization","summary":"A change in the accepted chain tip that removes one or more previously accepted blocks and replaces them with another branch.","href":"/glossary/#reorganization","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Reorganization A change in the accepted chain tip that removes one or more previously accepted blocks and replaces them with another branch. A reorg can be ordinary, accidental, or adversarial; describe the actual blocks, work, transactions, and rules."},{"id":"glossary:wallet-action","kind":"Glossary","title":"Wallet action","summary":"A BRC-100 request for a wallet to create, sign, internalize, list, or otherwise manage an application-related operation.","href":"/glossary/#wallet-action","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Wallet action A BRC-100 request for a wallet to create, sign, internalize, list, or otherwise manage an application-related operation. The wallet's permission and custody implementation determines the actual user boundary."},{"id":"glossary:basket","kind":"Glossary","title":"Basket","summary":"A wallet-level organization mechanism for outputs associated with an application or purpose.","href":"/glossary/#basket","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Basket A wallet-level organization mechanism for outputs associated with an application or purpose. A basket label is not a universal data-export or cross-wallet migration guarantee."},{"id":"glossary:identity-key","kind":"Glossary","title":"Identity key","summary":"A public-key identity used in BRC-103 authentication and related wallet-mediated interactions.","href":"/glossary/#identity-key","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Identity key A public-key identity used in BRC-103 authentication and related wallet-mediated interactions. A key is an identifier and cryptographic control point; it is not automatically a civil identity or a proof that every attached claim is true."},{"id":"glossary:certificate","kind":"Glossary","title":"Certificate","summary":"A signed claim about a subject that can be selectively exchanged and verified in BRC-oriented identity flows.","href":"/glossary/#certificate","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Certificate A signed claim about a subject that can be selectively exchanged and verified in BRC-oriented identity flows. Trust depends on issuer, claim semantics, expiry, revocation, disclosure, and verifier policy."},{"id":"glossary:counterparty","kind":"Glossary","title":"Counterparty","summary":"The other party in a wallet key-derivation, payment, signature, encryption, or authenticated-message relationship.","href":"/glossary/#counterparty","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Counterparty The other party in a wallet key-derivation, payment, signature, encryption, or authenticated-message relationship. Human-readable presentation and authentication are needed; a raw public key alone may not convey who the user is dealing with."},{"id":"glossary:overlay","kind":"Glossary","title":"Overlay","summary":"An application-specific service layer that admits, tracks, indexes, discovers, and synchronizes relevant UTXO-based state.","href":"/glossary/#overlay","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Overlay An application-specific service layer that admits, tracks, indexes, discovers, and synchronizes relevant UTXO-based state. An overlay can decentralize application state while still depending on schemas, hosts, discovery, and the BSV rail."},{"id":"glossary:topic-manager","kind":"Glossary","title":"Topic manager","summary":"Overlay logic that decides which outputs are admissible for an application-defined topic.","href":"/glossary/#topic-manager","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Topic manager Overlay logic that decides which outputs are admissible for an application-defined topic. Admission rules are application policy and should be inspectable, versioned, and consistently enforced."},{"id":"glossary:lookup-service","kind":"Glossary","title":"Lookup service","summary":"An overlay component that indexes admitted outputs and answers application-specific queries.","href":"/glossary/#lookup-service","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Lookup service An overlay component that indexes admitted outputs and answers application-specific queries. Query availability and meaning can depend on the operator and index implementation even when source transactions are public."},{"id":"glossary:ship","kind":"Glossary","title":"SHIP","summary":"The overlay service-discovery mechanism used to advertise hosts that serve particular topics.","href":"/glossary/#ship","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"SHIP The overlay service-discovery mechanism used to advertise hosts that serve particular topics. Discovery does not guarantee service honesty, uptime, completeness, or independent operation."},{"id":"glossary:slap","kind":"Glossary","title":"SLAP","summary":"The overlay discovery mechanism used to locate services that answer particular lookup queries.","href":"/glossary/#slap","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"SLAP The overlay discovery mechanism used to locate services that answer particular lookup queries. A discovered lookup provider remains a trust, availability, and consistency dependency."},{"id":"glossary:gasp","kind":"Glossary","title":"GASP","summary":"Graph Aware Sync Protocol: a mechanism for synchronizing relevant transaction-graph state between overlay services.","href":"/glossary/#gasp","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"GASP Graph Aware Sync Protocol: a mechanism for synchronizing relevant transaction-graph state between overlay services. Synchronization protocol does not prove independent hosts exist or that an application's complete off-chain state is portable."},{"id":"glossary:rail-dependency","kind":"Glossary","title":"Rail dependency","summary":"A product's dependence on the settlement network, token, proof semantics, node rules, services, or licenses specific to a blockchain.","href":"/glossary/#rail-dependency","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Rail dependency A product's dependence on the settlement network, token, proof semantics, node rules, services, or licenses specific to a blockchain. Portable concepts or data do not make a complete running product rail-neutral."},{"id":"glossary:conformance-vector","kind":"Glossary","title":"Conformance vector","summary":"A versioned test input and expected result used by multiple implementations to check compatible behavior.","href":"/glossary/#conformance-vector","category":"Glossary","searchableText":"Conformance vector A versioned test input and expected result used by multiple implementations to check compatible behavior. Coverage, negative cases, runner independence, and published failures matter as much as the existence of vectors."},{"id":"resource:https://www.judiciary.uk/judgments/copa-v-wright/","kind":"Resource","title":"COPA v Wright — approved judgment","summary":"Official High Court publication of the approved judgment and identity findings.","href":"https://www.judiciary.uk/judgments/copa-v-wright/","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. COPA v Wright — approved judgment Official High Court publication of the approved judgment and identity findings."},{"id":"resource:https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf","kind":"Resource","title":"Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System","summary":"The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms.","href":"https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System The original paper; read its proof-of-work, incentives, privacy, and SPV claims in their own terms."},{"id":"resource:https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules","kind":"Resource","title":"BSV Network Access Rules","summary":"The published agreement governing the Association-node relationship; it is evidence of the stated rules, not independent proof of their application.","href":"https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. BSV Network Access Rules The published agreement governing the Association-node relationship; it is evidence of the stated rules, not independent proof of their application."},{"id":"resource:https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules/part-iii-enforcement-rules","kind":"Resource","title":"Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules","summary":"Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation.","href":"https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules/part-iii-enforcement-rules","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. Network Access Rules — Part III, Enforcement Rules Directive events, restrictions, and permitted steps including freezes, reassignment, peer controls, and block invalidation."},{"id":"resource:https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules/part-iv-dispute-resolution-rules","kind":"Resource","title":"Network Access Rules — Part IV, Dispute Resolution Rules","summary":"Published dispute path; inspect scope, forum, standing, and remedies rather than assuming an appeal mechanism.","href":"https://docs.bsvblockchain.org/network-access-rules/network-access-rules/part-iv-dispute-resolution-rules","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. Network Access Rules — Part IV, Dispute Resolution Rules Published dispute path; inspect scope, forum, standing, and remedies rather than assuming an appeal mechanism."},{"id":"resource:https://github.com/bitcoin-sv/bitcoin-sv/blob/master/LICENSE","kind":"Resource","title":"Bitcoin SV node — Open BSV License","summary":"Operative repository license. Version 5 conditions derived software use on BSV blockchains.","href":"https://github.com/bitcoin-sv/bitcoin-sv/blob/master/LICENSE","category":"Primary records","searchableText":"Primary records Start here for legal, historical, protocol, and governance claims. Bitcoin SV node — Open BSV License Operative repository license. Version 5 conditions derived software use on BSV blockchains."},{"id":"resource:https://bsv.brc.dev/","kind":"Resource","title":"Bitcoin Request for Comments index","summary":"Public specifications and proposal history; a published specification is not itself proof of independent adoption.","href":"https://bsv.brc.dev/","category":"Standards to read","searchableText":"Standards to read Specifications establish what is proposed. Implementations and shared tests establish what interoperates. Bitcoin Request for Comments index Public specifications and proposal history; a published specification is not itself proof of independent adoption."},{"id":"resource:https://bsv.brc.dev/wallet/0100","kind":"Resource","title":"BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface","summary":"The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery.","href":"https://bsv.brc.dev/wallet/0100","category":"Standards to read","searchableText":"Standards to read Specifications establish what is proposed. Implementations and shared tests establish what interoperates. BRC-100 — Unified wallet-to-application interface The current unified interface covering wallet actions, signatures, encryption, certificates, permissions, and discovery."},{"id":"resource:https://bsv.brc.dev/transactions/0067","kind":"Resource","title":"BRC-67 — Simplified Payment Verification","summary":"Application-side criteria for verifying transaction inclusion and ancestry with proofs.","href":"https://bsv.brc.dev/transactions/0067","category":"Standards to read","searchableText":"Standards to read Specifications establish what is proposed. Implementations and shared tests establish what interoperates. BRC-67 — Simplified Payment Verification Application-side criteria for verifying transaction inclusion and ancestry with proofs."},{"id":"resource:https://bsv.brc.dev/peer-to-peer/0103","kind":"Resource","title":"BRC-103 — Mutual authentication and certificate exchange","summary":"Peer-to-peer authentication, message signatures, and selective certificate exchange protocol.","href":"https://bsv.brc.dev/peer-to-peer/0103","category":"Standards to read","searchableText":"Standards to read Specifications establish what is proposed. Implementations and shared tests establish what interoperates. BRC-103 — Mutual authentication and certificate exchange Peer-to-peer authentication, message signatures, and selective certificate exchange protocol."},{"id":"resource:https://bsv.brc.dev/payments/0105","kind":"Resource","title":"BRC-105 — HTTP service monetization framework","summary":"Specification for authenticated HTTP 402 pay-per-request flows; implementation and demand must be verified separately.","href":"https://bsv.brc.dev/payments/0105","category":"Standards to read","searchableText":"Standards to read Specifications establish what is proposed. Implementations and shared tests establish what interoperates. BRC-105 — HTTP service monetization framework Specification for authenticated HTTP 402 pay-per-request flows; implementation and demand must be verified separately."},{"id":"resource:https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/ts-stack","kind":"Resource","title":"BSV TypeScript stack","summary":"Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors.","href":"https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/ts-stack","category":"Code and conformance","searchableText":"Code and conformance Inspect implementation, tests, license, current maintenance, and known gaps. BSV TypeScript stack Current monorepo for SDK, wallet, overlay, messaging, middleware, helpers, infrastructure, documentation, and conformance vectors."},{"id":"resource:https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/ts-stack/tree/main/conformance","kind":"Resource","title":"BSV TypeScript conformance corpus","summary":"Language-neutral vectors and runners. Inspect current coverage and parity before calling the whole interface interoperable.","href":"https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/ts-stack/tree/main/conformance","category":"Code and conformance","searchableText":"Code and conformance Inspect implementation, tests, license, current maintenance, and known gaps. BSV TypeScript conformance corpus Language-neutral vectors and runners. Inspect current coverage and parity before calling the whole interface interoperable."},{"id":"resource:https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/teranode","kind":"Resource","title":"Teranode source repository","summary":"Current public implementation. Source availability does not validate throughput or production-readiness claims by itself.","href":"https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/teranode","category":"Code and conformance","searchableText":"Code and conformance Inspect implementation, tests, license, current maintenance, and known gaps. Teranode source repository Current public implementation. Source availability does not validate throughput or production-readiness claims by itself."},{"id":"resource:https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/teranode-teratestnet","kind":"Resource","title":"Teranode Teratestnet runner","summary":"Public instructions and tooling for running the test network; inspect hardware and workload before comparing results.","href":"https://github.com/bsv-blockchain/teranode-teratestnet","category":"Code and conformance","searchableText":"Code and conformance Inspect implementation, tests, license, current maintenance, and known gaps. Teranode Teratestnet runner Public instructions and tooling for running the test network; inspect hardware and workload before comparing results."},{"id":"resource:https://docs.projectbabbage.com/docs/quickstarts","kind":"Resource","title":"Project Babbage quickstarts","summary":"Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof.","href":"https://docs.projectbabbage.com/docs/quickstarts","category":"Things to try","searchableText":"Things to try Use a real path and record versions, permissions, expected output, cost, and failures. Project Babbage quickstarts Runnable wallet-mediated application paths. Maintainer documentation is useful for reproduction, not independent adoption proof."},{"id":"resource:https://metanetacademy.com/builder-lab","kind":"Resource","title":"Metanet Academy Builder Lab","summary":"Ungated architecture, diagnostics, and working-flow walkthroughs for builders.","href":"https://metanetacademy.com/builder-lab","category":"Things to try","searchableText":"Things to try Use a real path and record versions, permissions, expected output, cost, and failures. Metanet Academy Builder Lab Ungated architecture, diagnostics, and working-flow walkthroughs for builders."},{"id":"resource:https://use.bsv.tools/","kind":"Resource","title":"Use BSV Tools","summary":"Builder-facing tool entry point; verify each linked dependency and live path independently.","href":"https://use.bsv.tools/","category":"Things to try","searchableText":"Things to try Use a real path and record versions, permissions, expected output, cost, and failures. Use BSV Tools Builder-facing tool entry point; verify each linked dependency and live path independently."},{"id":"resource:https://whatsonchain.com/","kind":"Resource","title":"WhatsOnChain explorer","summary":"Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies.","href":"https://whatsonchain.com/","category":"Current-state surfaces","searchableText":"Current-state surfaces Useful for discovery and live inspection; recheck every unstable fact at decision time. WhatsOnChain explorer Current block and transaction inspection surface; explorer availability and interpretation remain third-party dependencies."},{"id":"resource:https://hub.bsvblockchain.org/demos-and-onboardings/demo-solutions/demos","kind":"Resource","title":"BSV Hub demo catalog","summary":"Maintainer-curated catalog with repository and status claims. Recheck every live URL, repository, and usage claim.","href":"https://hub.bsvblockchain.org/demos-and-onboardings/demo-solutions/demos","category":"Current-state surfaces","searchableText":"Current-state surfaces Useful for discovery and live inspection; recheck every unstable fact at decision time. BSV Hub demo catalog Maintainer-curated catalog with repository and status claims. Recheck every live URL, repository, and usage claim."}]}]]}],"$L23"],["$L24"],"$L25"]}],{},null,false,null]},null,false,"$@26"]},null,false,null],"$L27",false]],"m":"$undefined","G":["$28",["$L29"]],"S":true,"h":null,"s":"$undefined","l":"$undefined","p":"$undefined","d":"$undefined","b":"L2eG0TXAS0BdDpsio7nk3"}
2a:I[97367,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"OutletBoundary"]
2b:"$Sreact.suspense"
2e:I[97367,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"ViewportBoundary"]
30:I[97367,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"MetadataBoundary"]
23:["$","footer",null,{"className":"site-footer eng-footer","children":[["$","div",null,{"children":[["$","strong",null,{"children":"BSV.place"}],["$","p",null,{"children":"A calm, inspectable place for contested questions."}]]}],["$","div",null,{"className":"footer-links","children":[["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/coverage/","children":"Coverage map"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/glossary/","children":"Glossary"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/updates/","aria-current":"$undefined","children":"Corrections & revisions"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/privacy/","aria-current":"$undefined","children":"Privacy"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/feed.xml","children":"Feed"}],["$","$L4",null,{"href":"/llms.txt","children":"llms.txt"}]]}],["$","p",null,{"className":"footer-note","children":"No advertising identifiers. No wallet data. No financial advice."}]]}]
24:["$","script","script-0",{"src":"/_next/static/chunks/0id9s4s36x93e.js","async":true,"nonce":"$undefined"}]
25:["$","$L2a",null,{"children":["$","$2b",null,{"name":"Next.MetadataOutlet","children":"$@2c"}]}]
2d:[]
26:"$W2d"
27:["$","$1","h",{"children":[null,["$","$L2e",null,{"children":"$L2f"}],["$","div",null,{"hidden":true,"children":["$","$L30",null,{"children":["$","$2b",null,{"name":"Next.Metadata","children":"$L31"}]}]}],null]}]
29:["$","link","0",{"rel":"stylesheet","href":"/_next/static/chunks/2792fh5pmqnqc.css","precedence":"next","crossOrigin":"$undefined","nonce":"$undefined"}]
2f:[["$","meta","0",{"charSet":"utf-8"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"viewport","content":"width=device-width, initial-scale=1"}]]
32:I[27201,["/_next/static/chunks/32z5tffztvkf0.js","/_next/static/chunks/14mrh2-p_w84d.js"],"IconMark"]
2c:null
31:[["$","title","0",{"children":"Search the evidence — BSV.place"}],["$","meta","1",{"name":"description","content":"Search BSV.place evidence briefs, objections, and primary resources without sending your query to a server."}],["$","meta","2",{"name":"application-name","content":"BSV.place"}],["$","link","3",{"rel":"manifest","href":"/site.webmanifest","crossOrigin":"$undefined"}],["$","meta","4",{"name":"referrer","content":"strict-origin-when-cross-origin"}],["$","meta","5",{"name":"robots","content":"index, follow"}],["$","link","6",{"rel":"canonical","href":"https://bsv.place/search/"}],["$","meta","7",{"property":"og:title","content":"Search the evidence — BSV.place"}],["$","meta","8",{"property":"og:description","content":"Search BSV.place evidence briefs, objections, and primary resources without sending your query to a server."}],["$","meta","9",{"property":"og:url","content":"https://bsv.place/search/"}],["$","meta","10",{"property":"og:site_name","content":"BSV.place"}],["$","meta","11",{"property":"og:image","content":"https://bsv.place/og.png"}],["$","meta","12",{"property":"og:image:width","content":"1200"}],["$","meta","13",{"property":"og:image:height","content":"630"}],["$","meta","14",{"property":"og:image:alt","content":"BSV.place — Evidence over allegiance"}],["$","meta","15",{"property":"og:type","content":"website"}],["$","meta","16",{"name":"twitter:card","content":"summary_large_image"}],["$","meta","17",{"name":"twitter:title","content":"Search the evidence — BSV.place"}],["$","meta","18",{"name":"twitter:description","content":"Search BSV.place evidence briefs, objections, and primary resources without sending your query to a server."}],["$","meta","19",{"name":"twitter:image","content":"https://bsv.place/og.png"}],["$","link","20",{"rel":"icon","href":"/favicon.ico","sizes":"any"}],["$","link","21",{"rel":"icon","href":"/favicon-32.png","type":"image/png","sizes":"32x32"}],["$","link","22",{"rel":"apple-touch-icon","href":"/apple-touch-icon.png","sizes":"180x180","type":"image/png"}],["$","$L32","23",{}]]
